What Concerns me the most in the world?
Since the homework was posted on the Blackboard, I have been asking myself this question
“what concerns me the most in the world?”. At the beginning, I could not think of anything that
I could designate as a concern. Perhaps the great quality of life that I am enjoying, the good and
healthy well-being of myself and my family, the more than sufficient wealth and luxury I
possess, amongst the various blessings I am indulged in, were the reasons I haven’t thought or
asked myself this question. However, the question kept ringing in my ears, and I started to
realize that I am not living in heaven and in fact I do have things that concerns me, some to a
great extent, in this world.
I began working on my thoughts by firstly reading Dr. Patzek article (link in blackboard). Despite
the difficult language and uncommon terminology/vocabulary used, I was inspired by his broad
thinking, profound explanation and the remarkable linking between different events and sorties
that shaped the entire article. It was news yet enlightening to me. However, due to my lack of
knowledge about the issues presented in the article, I cannot say that my concerns match the
ones in the article, at least yet.
What really concerns me the most is the rising cost of living and how to compensate that. Over
the past decade, I witnessed the dramatic increase in prices in almost all goods and services
starting from gasoline, grocery and household needs, clothes, food and other necessary
products and services. Although this increase in prices is technically justifiable, i.e. VAT
increase, COVID-19, …etc, I will not entrain the reasons in this essay.
Part of what makes this issue uniquely concerning to me is the question I keep asking myself
“how am I going to afford a decent life to my family and kids”?. To illustrate, I define decent life
as high-quality education (from KG all the way to college), comprehensive healthcare insurance,
a spacious living place in a safe, clean, and respected community, and off course access to all
kinds of foods and water. Not long time ago, these were considered basic “or guaranteed”
needs that the average family in Saudi can afford. Nevertheless, not anymore! As a matter of
fact, some of them started looking like a dream that one had to work hard to achieve, but no
guaranteed. Sometimes, I look at my kids and wonder if I can enroll them in well-known highperforming school, as the school tuition is getting insanely higher year after year, especially that
education is something that I greatly value and intend to spare no money or effort to invest in
my kids. In addition, I often ask myself where you and your family will live. Will I be able to
afford buying a house? Townhouse? Apartment maybe?. Because again not long time ago the
affordability to by a land and build a house was the basic norm. Unfortunately, this now costs a
lot to a point where a large percentage of Saudi people started downsizing their dream house
to a super small townhouse or apartment.
There are many aspects that lies under the cost of living. However, I have only highlighted the
main issues that concerns me the most. To some people, these concerns may sound quite the
opposite. However, I am sharing my own experience. Despite all of that, the positive side of

having such concerns is that it derives me to think of additional ways of increasing my income
and ensuring the desirable quality of life to my family and myself.

