Shaden Albahrani 
ERPE 200: What Concerns Me the Most in the World

Growing up, I was always an anxious child. I worried a lot about the small things, even larger issues beyond my understanding. Now, there is little in this fast-paced world that has eased my anxieties as an adult. Though I’ve gotten better at dealing with issues within my personal life, much in the world feels far beyond my control, and that concerns me the most. 

I first became truly aware of environmental issues after learning about veganism and watching the documentary Cowspiracy in high school. Though I was exposed to recycling and reusing campaigns early in elementary school, I wasn’t aware of the gruesome realities under which our world operates. It became difficult to balance between the passion to act and the hopelessness that comes with the realization that my individual actions alone may not be enough. Initially, I was mostly driven by the passion to make small changes to my lifestyle that would perhaps make the slightest of impact. Gradually, I was met with sentiments of “what’s the point?” by several people who saw my lifestyle changes. I felt a combination of discouragement, confusion, and despair. The drive I had to make environmentally friendly changes was waning, and I struggled to have hope that I would inspire someone else by my small actions. The feelings of despair grew until I gave up on taking action and adopted the sentiment of “what’s the point?” After some time, I tried again to abandon past convenient actions, such as using plastic water bottles and utensils. I adopted a healthier mentality rather than feeling discouraged about my impact. 

My own struggle with changing my previous habits makes me think of our collective responsibility as humans. It frustrates me that many people would rather keep their convenience intact than be slightly inconvenienced to be more environmentally conscious. Paired with my frustration, however, comes a level of understanding, being a human myself who has chosen the more convenient route many times. While some individuals do try to make more environmentally conscious decisions, corporations that are money driven have practices that have a more harmful impact on the environment. It worries me that those who hold the power are not as concerned with the pressing environmental issues as individuals with little control over the continuing harmful actions. 

Over the past few years, I have seen consumer behavior begin to impact the actions of corporations, such as coffee shops switching to paper straws or omitting straw use altogether. However, I still worry that on the larger scale, corporations are doing little to change their most impactful practices. This consumer demand has also led to greenwashing, which corporations use to give us consumers a false sense of security that our purchases are more environmentally friendly than they really are. As a human inhabiting this earth, I am overwhelmingly concerned on where the responsibility falls, and whether those who are the most responsible have the conscience or sense of urgency to change their ways. 


