ERPE-200

Ali Altowilib
183527

HW#1

What Concerns Me the Most in the World
The world is heading towards a junction, in which there will be two choices; to become better or
worse. Despite massive advancements in technology, there are various economic, environmental, political,
and social issues globally. Therefore, in this essay, I will highlight three global challenges that are concerning
me the most. I selected these issues specifically due to how much they are slowing the world’s progress
towards becoming a better one.
It is unfortunate that severe mental health stigma is still a global issue. In 2017, a study showed that
792 million people have suffered from mental health disorder (1). Another study, which was conducted by
the National Council of Social Service in Singapore, concluded that 7 in 10 people with mental health
conditions encounter discrimination on a daily basis (2). When we discriminate or stigmatize people with
mental health, we are building barriers in the form of self-doubt and reluctance to seek help. Instead, we
have a mission of raising awareness of mental health conditions and mental health acceptance. We should
also promote mental wellbeing, especially after COVID-19 challenges related to curfews, lockdowns, and
inevitable changes of lifestyle. Consequently, we will prevent patients’ withdrawal from societies and
potential suicide attempts.
Water is essential for maintaining health and sustaining life on earth. Our planet is 70 % covered by
water but only about 3% is classified as fresh water (3). Water scarcity is an ongoing crisis that is affecting
one in three people globally (4). Profusion of water, global warming, water pollution, and rise of population
all contribute to the drought of fresh water and lack of access to drinkable water. This issue, if not resolved,
will create governmental wars or conflicts. A current example is the Nile River Dam conflict between Egypt
and Ethiopia. To combat this global challenge and ensure sustainability of life, governments should invest
more in seawater desalination and water irrigation systems enhancements (5).
Yearly, several refugees flee their lands searching for a better destination in terms of security and
living standards. The number of refugees keeps on rising due to continuous conflicts happening worldwide
specifically in Syria, Afghanistan, and Venezuela. As of 2019, there were around 26 million refugees globally.
This number by itself is overwhelming but what is even worse is that 85% of the refugees were welcomed
by developed countries (6). On the contrary, rich countries are turning their back to this issue. Some of these
countries are capable of hosting those refugees but that is not possible due to the complexity of refugees’
regulations. Moreover, there are not enough actions towards enhancement of current policies, which in
return force refugees to take unsafe and illegal routes. Governments must revise refugees and cross
boarders’ regulations to ease application for asylum, minimize deaths of refugees, and ensure providing a
brighter future.
In short, humans are currently faced with several global issues including mental health support, water
scarcity, and refugees’ status. Those issues and other unmentioned ones are leaving adverse effects on us
and our planet. Local and international collaboration is demanded to come up with drastic actions to make
the world a better place for us and upcoming generations.

ERPE-200

Ali Altowilib
183527

HW#1

References:
1. https://ourworldindata.org/mental-health
2. https://www.ncss.gov.sg/docs/default-source/ncss-press-release-doc/mh-anti-stigma-campaignlaunch-release-pdf.pdf
3. https://www.nationalgeographic.com/environment/freshwater/freshwater-crisis/
4. https://www.meco.com/facts-about-water-scarcity/
5. https://www.waterlogicaustralia.com.au/resources/blog/how-people-are-resolving-to-reducewater-scarcity/
6. https://www.amnesty.org/en/what-we-do/refugees-asylum-seekers-and-migrants/global-refugeecrisis-statistics-and-facts/

