What Concerns Me the Most in the World

The main challenge for the world's future in the next 50 years is the lack of
elements to assure political stability. The current economic and political
establishment doesn't provide the conditions needed for our societies and lives to
continue without change. The disparity in access to knowledge, technologies,
natural resources, and health supplies will exacerbate inequalities between
countries and between different classes inside countries. These inequalities will
continue to be the primary driver for overexploitation of resources, migration, and
armed conflicts. What concerns me the most in the world is that humanity has
proven, many times, its lack of will and lack of capability to solve global issues in a
holistic approach that considers the welfare of society. This approach is inadequate
since "solving" problems in one geography of the world will exacerbate similar
issues in other parts of the world. This phenomenon is known as a negative-sum
game in game theory since the total gains in the system outweigh the total losses
in the system.
The disparity of access to knowledge is a devastating differentiator. For instance,
people who need to allocate their time to carry buckets of water to their homes
cannot allocate enough time to study and enjoy the benefits of information
technologies? How will they do it if they still have no access to electricity or must
fight against diseases already eradicated in most of the world? On the other hand,
some children were lucky to be born in developed countries and can learn using
tablets and Wi-Fi and have immediate access to information generated all around
the globe.
Technologies such as the Internet of Things (IoT), automation, drones, artificial
intelligence, among other new technologies, have changed the rules of the game.
Countries with access to these technologies increase their productivity, improve
their domestic safety, and provide an environment that fosters well-being, job
creation, and wealth accumulation. At the same time, some regions of the world
still don't have access to technologies that were developed 50 years and are still
struggling to solve basic needs.
As we have witnessed during the COVID pandemic, some people prefer not to
believe in science, bringing a new challenge for the scientific world. Funding for
further research will become scarcer since some governments might allocate more
budget to activities that are easier to understand by their citizens or that have an
immediate effect and can harvest future votes, withdrawing money from research
activities.

As an engineer with the ambition of building a better future, I commit myself to
develop research that enables better access to technologies and better public
policies to create better opportunities for communities worldwide. Research centers
have a crucial role in creating solutions but provide small benefits if only a few can
understand them. It is really motivating to participate in a research team that can
provide science-based elements that can be taken into consideration by
international organizations, governments and individuals to have a positive impact
and be part of the solution to some of the issues addressed in these lines.

Gilberto Calderon

