What concerns me the most in the world
Harif Fontecha, ID: 180049

My biggest concern is the uncertainty of the future that I am trying to build for my family and for myself.
There are aspects out of my control, since world political movements to situations based on pure luck that
can shape the way my life will be. Not having control of the entire situation is part of life, a rather difficult
one for me.
During the last decade I have made decisions expecting for a future I am always uncertain if will arrive. I
invest my time and money on aspects I consider will become important in the future. From financial
investments to education, year after year I get prepared. However, as the world I live in and myself change,
my perspective of the future does too. Having a rather realistic view of the world and having hope in a bright
future is a challenging task.
When compared to my family, I am now in a privileged position at Kaust. A constant thought in my head is
not having enough time for giving back to my parents all they have done for me. I am very conscious of the
energy and time that my family spent to make me who I am now. The struggle of a middle-class family in a
third world country is, in many ways, difficult to survive without scars of some type. Now, my family is in a
much better position, but time is running, my parents are getting older, and I still don’t feel the financial
security for providing them with the life I wish they had. Some questions resonate in my head, do they even
want a different life? Is money more important than physical and emotional support? Is it reasonable to
consider this aspect as a pillar of my life? Only time will tell.
Recently I am concerned that all the efforts in the world are based on superfluous trends. Arbitrary decisions
made to create the illusion of a defined path. For example, sustainability sometimes seems more like a trend,
such as the disco music and ripped jeans. With these trends we feel connected to others, we define our identity.
Yet, the difference between identity and responsibility is significant. Every product can be called green if you
have the right lawyers to sustain the idea. I am afraid I see a trend towards commercialization of the idea, and
not to the moral accountability we must have as individuals and specially as society. Still, nowadays I shape
my career based on a world of renewables, hydrogen, and carbon capture as pillars of the world. If humanity
changes this trend, I will not only have more concerns due to the planet I will live, but I will also be out of
direction in my professional path.
To conclude, my biggest concern is associated with the future and the lack of control I have on it. As only a
human being, I have no other way but living with this concern and doing my best, hoping the best, but
expecting the worst.

1

