Holkan Vazquez Sanchez
ID 182658

The new nature
When we refer to the concept of nature, we usually think about trees, volcanoes, rivers, oceans,
jungles, and some other notions that picture elements of the environment. It is commonly used for
things that are not done by humans. Actually, when we think about the adjective that derives from
this unique word, the term natural, we visualize it as the antonym of artificial. Creating a two-sided
mindset for our living world. On one side of the coin there is the unaltered place or elements that
correspond to what nature is conceptualized, and on the other side relies all things done by the
human effort. All of this is an exaggerated misconception of the real definition that the word “nature”
refers to. Nowadays, our world is being planned, seen, and discussed from this divided perspective,
having real effects in real lives.
An interesting fact about the definition of nature is that actually, it has more than one meaning, first,
it has the one argued previously as “the phenomena of the physical world collectively; esp. plants,
animals, and other features and products of the earth itself, as opposed to humans and human
creations” accordingly to the Oxford English Dictionary. However right below it another meaning
appears: “In wider sense: the whole natural world, including human beings; the cosmos”. Here, many
questions arise. Is the human part of the natural world because of its origins? Is it a requirement to
separate human beings and human activities from what is considered nature? What about
technology? What reasons do we have to exclude modern technology from the concept of nature?
From a holistic angle, based on my previous experiences, and just by observing the actual scenarios
related to the environmental crisis we are dealing with; nature must (and it is forced to) be perceived
as a whole system without ignoring any subject at all. This is an inclusive concept, not proposed here
but vastly omitted by many important stakeholders in this century. Being this my biggest concern in
the world.
Many current problems could have been prevented if this lens was applied when designing business,
governments affairs, cities, policies, organizations, economy, etc. The human factor is now a
negative/corrective element within these systems. What if we have thought about human activity
impacts since the beginning? What if modern technology could be seen as one of many tools to solve
real problems? Humans are nature, nature is humans. We all are related through this immense
structure we are frequently exploiting. Do we have the right mindset as human beings to construct a
sustainable future? What does it take to educate it and apply it? There is no golden rule to this
challenge but it is worth questioning it, even if it is too late.
There could be a lot of different opinions about this short text I have written, several debates could
be done facing this argument, divers points of view could emerge… But that is the nature of nature:
to evolve.

