What Concerns Me Most in The World

One of the defining aspects of humanity is the ability to strongly believe one thing, but then live in complete contradiction to that belief. One may claim that violence is wrong but persist in beating others when they get angry. One may believe in being honest but then lie when they get scared. One may believe in being loyal but then betray trust when desires become strong. One may believe in being kind to all, but persist in their hatred towards an individual, race, or other grouping of people. When emotions are unbridled, they drive individuals to act in irrational ways. Often, the results are detrimental to both the individual, and those around them. 
But is emotion what concerns me most in this world? Emotion in and of itself is not inherently destructive. Emotion is more like a force. Properly directed and applied an emotion can drive a human toward great acts of good. In this sense, it is similar to how a mechanical force may be applied to a mechanism to create a beneficial working device. 
But what is it that directs emotion so that it doesn’t burst explosively in a damaging fashion? Logic. Each individual has their own personal logic. This logic dictates how their emotions are channeled. Perfect personal logic would be guidelines that channeled emotion to drive an individual towards living in direct accordance with their beliefs. However, one need only look at the world to see that no individual has perfect personal logic and most have poor personal logic. Poor personal logic results in poorly channeled emotion. This may result in individuals containing the emotion such that they seem to be without feeling until it bursts with violence, or it may cause the emotion to constantly run free in every direction. In either case the individual ends up living in contradiction to their beliefs, whether they realize it or not. In fact, most often, we do not realize the shortcomings of our personal logic, or the contradictions in our lives. In extreme cases, our personal logic may become so twisted that it deliberately channels emotion towards extremely destructive behaviors. In this we begin to see the beginning of what concerns me most. But there is more.
How does one determine the faults in their logic? To truly do so would require the impossible act of seeing oneself outside of one’s own paradigms. So instead, we must rely on societal devices of knowledge transfer and study that allow one to develop an area of expertise and then we must compare our personal logic to the logic of those experts. The entirety of education is based upon this idea. But even the most basic knowledge of history supplies us with abundant examples of flaws in this concept. Unfortunately, not all those who are named to be experts deserve that title. Still further it is difficult for true experts to accurately predict the bounds of their expertise as they themselves cannot objectively analyze their own logic. 
In this lies the essence of my greatest concern. We live in a world full of people who experience powerful emotions that drive them towards action. Each one is the hero of their own story. And almost all act with the certainty that they know what is best, and that they, and they alone, truly understand what needs to be saved and how to save it. But so very few have the humility to constantly question if they are right. 
To provide proof to this point, I am certain that the reader will find many holes in this essay, and they shall declare that they know better the concepts of which I am attempting to speak. But the true test is not if the reader can find the faults in my words, but if they will try to find them in their own. As such, those who understand the concept that I have been trying to explain, will realize that the only truly beneficial analysis of these words, will be my own analysis trying to find the flaws in what I have written.


