Drafted by: Mohamed K. Al-Saikhan
KAUST ID: 184248

09/03/2021
ERPE200

As we continue to march forward into the 21st century, technologies have become in the center of
everything. It is now the base on which education, healthcare, transportation, communication, entertainment
and many other industries and systems are built. The exponential advancements of the networking
technologies over the past ten years have produced the world’s largest digital store by Amazon, largest car
rental company by Uber, largest home rental company by Airbnb, autopiloted cars by Tesla, largest
communication company by WhatsApp, largest media content platform by Netflex, most valuable digital
currency by Bitcoin, and the largest cloud meeting company by Zoom. Companies and governments have
also exploited the utilization of this advancement to serve their needs, be it on driving down cost per unit,
reducing non-productive time, enhancing security, integrating systems, decision making and so on.
Certainly, with every new change, new challenges arise. As we are becoming more dependent on
technologies, we are more cyberly vulnerable not only as individuals, but also as societies and institutions.
But why should we care?
In 2012, Saudi Aramco, the company I work for, was attacked by Shamoon virus, which had
compromised several facilities as soon as it breached into one of the employee’s computers. I have
personally witnessed the extent of damage this attack had caused wiping out years’ worth of work and
temporarily seizing operations in certain areas, surly it was not a pleasant experience at all. A lot of lessons
learned were pointed out and stringent measures were put in place afterword, but even attackers can get
more creative with time. Another notable example in 2017 was the ransomware attack on the UK’s National
Healthcare Systems database putting many hospitals across the country in paralysis for few days. My older
sister Lamya, who was an echocardiography specialist at Hammersmith Hospital in London at the time had
descried the attack as “scary”.
Cyberwarfare is an emerging unconventional threat, which can be posed by either an individual or
a group of individuals using affordable means that are not necessarily exclusive for governments or
companies. It is true that many governments have realized the immense need of improved capabilities to
counter these increased attacks and protect the integrity of their systems, some governments have even
appointed chiefs for cyber security. However, amid an era that craves on collecting and analyzing
tremendous amount of data, the means to compromise this process through manipulation and theft can
potentially get “scarier”. Think about jamming the GPS system, whereby thousands of daily flights are
using to draw routes to their final destinations, what about the damage of manipulating inputs in our semiautomated oil and gas processing facilities, what about attacking governments servers storing citizens
database, or exposing the banking systems or even your own private data. This is what concerns me the
most. The evolving tools of the cyberwarfare can get as destructive as a nuclear bomb. And no matter how
thick or protected a house font door is, an innocent kid can let a thief in.

