THE TRUTH BEHIND ANIMAL TESTING
For centuries, humans have worked consistently for the sake of evolution. These
contributions would have never been made without the sacrifices of time, materials, and space, but
when it comes to some scientific and medical growth, humans have taken all the credit and fame
and people seem to dismiss all the animals that have went through agonizing trials for long years,
for human profit. Some claim that animals are inferior to us humans, so painful tests are required
for the greater good. In this essay, I will argue against animal testing by mentioning its foul history
and the emotional and physical distress it causes.
Animals have never really been looked at as a breathing living thing, instead as merely
objects to perform damaging actions upon. Animal testing has had a long, dark, and cruel history.
Ancient Greece was first known to dissect live pigs and dogs; they believed that the animal had no
intelligence so their right to speak against the dissection was ruled out. It became more and more
popular throughout the years expanding not only to live dissection, but cosmetic industries began
exploiting animals as in having cosmetic components rubbed into their skin or eyes, and forcibly
making them eat cosmetic ingredients to determine the level of toxicity and allergic reactions, and
they are usually killed in the end. Animals are also used as rehearsal surgeries for humans, as in
trial runs and testing, for medicines by being exposed to dangerous chemicals to see if they are
safe for humans. Animals have no sort of advantages whatsoever other than having to bear terrible
pain and suffering every day.
The side effects of animal testing and the associated pain are only felt by the tested
animals themselves. Studies show that animals suffer mentally during laboratory procedures. As
an example, a study done in 2004 revealed that “The data suggest that significant fear, stress, and
possibly distress are predictable consequences of routine laboratory procedures and that these
phenomena have substantial scientific and humane implications for the use of animals in laboratory
research” (Balcombe) showing that animals also go through extreme psychological problems
during the tests, so even if they do survive the whole experiment and miraculously get back to their
environment, they still wouldn’t be able to mentally, or physically function as usual.
In conclusion, animal testing has proven to be harmful to poor defenseless animals
and must be globally banned. Animals have helped humans to survive and develop further. Now
that we have advanced in many fields of life, we should not abuse our power and knowledge
against them. My concerns lay on the fact that experimentations are cruel, unjustifiable, and do
not represent human kindness. Its unjust past and effects show that animal testing is worth taking
a charge against.
1

Cite list
(1)
RSS,

Balcombe, Jonathan P., et al. “Laboratory Routines Cause Animal Stress.” Latest TOC
American

Association

for

Laboratory

Animal

Science,

1

Nov.

www.ingentaconnect.com/content/aalas/jaalas/2004/00000043/00000006/art00009 .

2

2004,

