THE THINGS WE ARE LEAVING BEHIND
By SEBASTIAN PATIÑO
MS/PhD Student
King Abdullah University of Science and Technology
I remember those days when I was a kid, and my mom used to take me to my grandma’s country house
during vacation days. I remember every inch of that house like it was yesterday when I was there. It was
a rustic house built by my grand-grandfather, probably during the 30’s last century. The house didn’t have
electricity, but my grandma always said that she only needed the sun, and indeed it was like that. She
used to wake early in the morning to use the sunlight as much as she could, and let me tell you (who is
reading this), those nights were outstanding there. Unfortunately, the war and the violence landed on
that beautiful place, and my family had to leave paradise to live in the city.
When I ask my grandma if she is happy, she always tells me – “I’m so lucky to have you all with me (children
and grandchildren), but I miss the simpler days, I miss the fresh air, the sound of the river, the green of
my house.” That makes me think about how lucky I was back then because I had the chance to see what
my grandma now misses that much. Now, every time those memories come to my mind, and I see my
little nephew Jacobo (Jacobo is one year and eight months old), it’s unavoidable to be afraid of the world
he is growing up in.
I’m afraid of this overpopulated world, a world in which it is impossible to find a place like my grandma’s
house, a world in which, probably, Jacobo will never be able to breathe the fresh air in the mornings in a
wood. This world, in which they have sold us the idea that a restaurant with artificial “nature” is a little
piece of the wild, a world in which my little boy will have to meet many species through “virtual reality”
because in the coming years won’t exist anymore. I’m so afraid of thinking that my boy (Jacobo) is already
sentenced to live in a burned world, and he has not had the chance even to make a decision.
The worst of all is that although I’m terrified about the world we are leaving for the next generations, I’m
so part of it that I cannot remove myself from it. I’m writing this letter on my last generation laptop while
listening to my favorite music on my iPhone and a small plant in this office to convince myself I’m in a
“green space”. But what can I do? How can I leave behind what makes me feel comfortable? Am I
arrogant? Am I jealous? But, what can a straightforward mortal, like me, do against the greedy, predator
human machine?
After this reflection, I don’t know what I’m more afraid of; the burned world I’m leaving for my little man
or the idea that I like to be part of this, and I don’t know what to do to start the change (apathy).

