     Experiencing the fascinating fact of being surrounded by nature, on a warm summer night, where the stars are shining in the very vast dark sky that the human eye can not even comprehend, and the tender breeze of the ancient sea blows loaded with thousands of stories of people who occupied this place before, "stood in the laboratory of the Artist who made the world and me.” (Thoreau, 1854/2017)
 The striking reality is that we are so distracted to notice the absolute beauty of the creation, by being cubed up in concrete prison we ironically call home, our necks are bent down, our eyes are tightened up towards the screen, our minds are preoccupied with the burning desire of being connected to the digital world. "To be awake is to be alive. I have never yet met a man who was quite awake. How could I have looked him in the face?" (Thoreau, 1854/2017)

Nature has always been a source of inspiration for many poets, writers, and artists; moreover, it can be a tool to discover who we indeed are. Being attached to nature would inevitably help us in terms of our personal and spiritual growth. No matter where we live on this enormous planet, the beauty of the wild nature will be present in its unique way, whether it is Akers of forests, massive hills of golden sand, or a glorious sea with all shades of blue as the one we encounter here "We must be refreshed by the sight of inexhaustible vigor, vast and titanic features, the sea-coast with its wrecks, the wilderness with its living and its decaying trees." (Thoreau, 1854/2017)

What concerns me the most in the world is that we -as a generation- are alienated from nature; in other words, we lost the connection with what must be the source of our spiritual growth, we do not know what to do with ourselves outdoor if we are not holding our phones, we do not know how to meditate, or at least to spend some time in pure calmness. By not exposing ourselves to pure nature, we are losing our sense of authenticity and our cognitive abilities; the ability to initiate small talks and carry on a perfectly delivered conversation, not to mention the depths and the values of our thoughts that are dangerously affected by the shallowed ideas absorbed from social media.
One can not deny the importance of the internet, which makes all sorts of knowledge accessible at any time with almost no cost; at the same time, the internet is dramatically changing our strong intimate social relationships into emotionless connections through digital applications and funny faces. It is trading our precious lives with a gray life of nothingness.

In conclusion, what concerns me the most is that our crucial need to immerse ourselves in nature has not been satisfied. "The world thus exists to the soul to satisfy the desire of beauty. This element I call an ultimate end. No reason can be asked or given why the soul seeks beauty. Beauty, in its largest and profoundest sense, is one expression for the universe." (Emerson, 1849/2000)
 



Thoreau, H. D. (2017). Walden : Life in the woods. ProQuest Ebook Central https://ebookcentral.proquest.com.

Emerson, R. W. (2000). Method of nature, the. ProQuest Ebook Central https://ebookcentral.proquest.com
 
