
Greetings, I find no better way to start off than to go directly into the subject so, let us begin. 

Humans are born with the ability to care about something. It starts as we do, small, but then they get bigger and bigger and with time we start to worry and they start being concerning to us. We grow and our sense of accountability and responsibility do as well. 

I cannot choose a single topic being what concerns me the most but instead I am going to choose a simple phrase The Future of Earth. I am a creature of earth and nothing concern me more than what is happening and will happen to our beloved and only home. Seeing all that is happening to the planet at the moment makes me sad and a little bit disappointed at our species. We did turn our world into a symphony of art and conflicts throughout the history and it is part of who we are but recently we have began shooting holes in the very same ship which is carrying us in the midst of the large, dark and cold ocean. We are sabotaging EARTH, our home. I have faced the depression of the third planet in the Milky Way galaxy and it saddened me deeply to just think that what brought us to life is being destroyed by its creation. Corals in the oceans and seas are dying. If the trees are the first lung of earth then the corals are the other half of that. Fish is decreasing as fast as breathable air. Trees are almost 2 percent of what they once were. We are in denial of being the starters of the sixth mass extinction, nay, the causers of it. So ask me again of my deepest fears and I shall answer it is that knowledge of my misery and sorrow of earth is of no reason and that I have to face that it is all going to waste pretty fast pretty soon. The future of earth is the future of me and if I were not afraid of the destruction of life on a whole planet then I am not in love with myself enough. I wish I could be as reckless just to be as relaxed about the annihilation of Carbon based life. 

We knew what we were doing ever since we started doing it but we kept always saying it is a problem of the latter generation until it reached ours and we will probably live and see the end of the Homo Sapiens species, us. 

I am going to finish by saying that optimism is only a waste of time. 
We have to start taking actions, world leaders should start drawing serious and immediate plans to save what is left or then we only have to accept our reality and know that the count down to ten has reached the number 7 and that is all behind us now.

