FEAR TO THE HUMAN APATHY

The human creature has been facing several global problems throughout its history that
have threatened with the loss of lives; famine, floods, droughts, pandemics, earthquakes,
and even tragedies produced by the own behavior as individuals who are capable of
affecting others; poverty, corruption, social inequality, pollution, affectation to the
environment, etc. While it is true that some of the causes that lead to the reduction of the
population as a consequence of these events are out of control for us as individuals (e.g.,
earthquakes), the impact of some of them (e.g., affectation on the environment) can be
significantly reduced if those events were treated with more interest by individuals and
entities with societal roles capable of taking action to regulate the triggering factors of
this global problems.
Particularly in the natural environmental aspects, which require the cooperation of entities
and individuals, it seems that there exists a generalized apathy to implement even small
changes (e.g., the excessive use of plastics, lacking recycling regulations) that can reduce
the footprint that the human species is undoubtedly causing. It implies that we do not
always ignore or lack the knowledge that can prevent the affectation to the environment,
but we avoid executing these changes probably to maintain a “quality of life” that given
the current situation of the climatic change can turn out to be; no more in the long term
but possibly in the short term; a dangerous scenario for the loss of lives, especially and
unfortunately the most vulnerable ones.
The generalized apathy to implement solutions or indifference to assume the
responsibility just because in some cases we do not recognize ourselves as part of the
affected group is, therefore, one of my biggest fears when it comes to being part of a
society that does not care for consequences that can cause on other members. By the way,
this is also applicable to other fields that involve relationships that can arise in society;
like politics, which is intimately related to economical affairs at a macro level (e.g. a
whole country) or micro-level (e.g. families) and that definitely can play determining role
when it concerns to problematics like famine.
There is still a question that arises when I think in the human apathy as an obstacle to
bringing solutions to problematics that touch a society; like natural environmental issues,
energy resources, or politics; is it possible that the apathy to this problematics be related
to a disconnection between generators of knowledge and the community or
disinformation of the real situation and, therefore, the lack of interest? If that were the
case, it would imply that there is still implicit a certain degree of passivity or indifference
to treat these issues with the necessary seriousness that it requires.
To summarize, human apathy which is simply a position towards a topic (and thus can
seem innocuous) can certainly become an action that can take lives, in the same way as
an explicit act can do it.

Created by: Victor Eduardo Fonseca Medina

