Among all the challenges we face today, what concerns me most is climate change. In the past 130 years, the global temperature has risen about 0.85℃. Each of the last 3 decades has been warmer than any previous decade since 1850[1]. 
Human activities have led to disturbing trends such as land and ocean temperature rising, sea level rising and extreme weather events[2]. 
Rising sea levels and extreme climate events will destroy our homes, medical facilities, and necessary infrastructure. More than half of the population lives in areas within 60 kilometers of the ocean. People may be forced to migrate, which will increase the risk of health effects ranging from infectious diseases and mental disorders[3]. 
Two islands of Kiribati in the Pacific Ocean, Tebua and Abanuea, disappeared because of the sea level rising. Other islands, including Kiribati and Tuvalu, will also disappear. So far, only some relatively small and uninhabited islands are completely disappeared. However, some inhabited islands also have been affected. The main islands of Kiribati, Tuvalu, and Marshall have suffered from floods due to high waves that destroy sea walls, roads, and bridges. Despite the sea walls protection, the airport has been flooded several times. Recently, Tuvaluans have found it difficult to grow crows due to the rising seawater destroy soil with salt. What’s more, some families threw trucks, cars, and other old machines into the sea to keep the waves out of dikes. The situation is almost the same in the remote Maldives[4]. 
As climate change continues to develop, lots of ice sheets in Greenland and Antarctica will collapse and melt eventually, causing global sea levels to rise by several meters. This will take time, but the melt rate is accelerating. Rainfall was recorded for the first time on the summit of Greenland, which is considered to be another red flag of climate change. Normally, the temperature of the 3216 meters is much lower than the freezing point[5]. According to the forecasts by United Nations Climate Agency, under low emission conditions, sea levels will rise by an average of 61 to 110 cm. By 2050, the home of 300 million people may be destroyed due to the sea level rising[6]. However, rising sea levels are not the only harm caused by climate change. 
Dissolving carbon dioxide in seawater will react to form carbonic acid, which will slowly change the PH of the seawater. That is bad news for shellfish and other marine life that use mineral calcium carbonate to form their shells. Corals are particularly vulnerable. Experiments on a small number of corals in the Great Barrier Reef in Australia have shown that reducing carbon dioxide in seawater will increase the calcification rate of corals. However, increasing carbon dioxide in seawater will reduce corals’ calcification[7]. 
As UN secretary-general Antonio Guterres said: “For too long, we have been waging a senseless and suicidal war on nature.” According to statistics, natural disasters have been caused 608 billion U.S. dollars to the world, which is equivalent to the total losses in the previous 40 years. It is time for us to reconsider our relationship with nature.

Reference
(1)	IPCC, 2014: Summary for Policymakers. In: Climate Change 2014: Mitigation of Climate Change. Contribution of Working Group III to the Fifth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change [Edenhofer, O., R. Pichs-Madruga, Y. Sokona, E. Farahani, S. Kadner, K. Seyboth, A. Adler, I. Baum, S. Brunner, P. Eickemeier, B. Kriemann, J. Savolainen, S. Schlömer, C. von Stechow, T. Zwickel and J.C. Minx (eds.)]. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, United Kingdom and New York, NY, USA.
(2)	Trenberth, Kevin E. “Stronger Evidence of Human Influence on Climate: The 2001 IPCC Assessment.” Environment 43 (May 2001):8-19
(3)	Hauer, M. E., Fussell, E., Mueller, V., Burkett, M., Call, M., Abel, K., . . . Wrathall, D. (2020). Sea-level rise and human migration. Nature Reviews Earth & Environment, 1(1), 28-39.
(4)	Namakin, B. (2007, July) Climate Witness: Ben Namakin, Kiribati and Micronesia/Interviewer: E. Metai.
(5)	Vlamis, K. (2021, August). The summit of Greenland got rain, rather than snow, for the first time on record. Global Conscience.
(6)	Watts, J. (2020, Oct). Rising sea levels pose threat to home of 300m people. The Guardian.
(7)	Stromatt, J. (2019). How Does Climate Change Affect Oceans. Giving Compass.
